Title: What are the most important skills you need to have as an entrepreneur?
Tags: business
SocialImage: startup-advice.png
Status: draft

![](/images/startup-advice.png)

**Problem solving**. This is the core competency of a founder — you are
determined to make something happen in the world, you face obstacles, and you
need to get good at overcoming them. Most people give up almost immediately when
they’re faced with a seemingly insurmountable challenge, the entrepreneurs go
“Okay, how do we solve it?”. And if the first solution fails, they come up with
and try a bunch of other options until they succeed.


<!-- readmore -->


**Original thinking.** Having insights into the world, and into his specific
field, that other people don’t see is a skill that gives entrepreneurs massive
leverage. Good founders have beliefs that seem crazy to other people, but are
true, or became true only recently, that’s what allows them to innovate and
create value other people didn’t see. Most of the people have wrong
preconceptions about the world, founders act based on what makes sense, not on
what most people believe. Basically, “Think for yourself, don’t be sheep.”

**Learning quickly. **As you’re building your company, you’re constantly faced
with new challenges, so it’s important to be able to learn quickly. Instead of
picking an occupation and sticking with it, you need to be a generalist and
figure things out as you go.

**Technology skills. **Technology is the most powerful force that enables people
to create things and gives businesses leverage. Being good at it gives you a
huge advantage, and enables you to innovate and create a lot of value.

*****

If you have questions on building and growing your online business, send them to
[advice@startuplab.io](mailto:advice@startuplab.io), and I will answer the best
ones in my future posts!
