Title: How can I find my first freelance clients?
Tags: freelance
SocialImage: startup-advice.png

![](/images/startup-advice.png)

This is a question I get asked very often, so I’ve decided to share my
collection of the most effective strategies that will help you get started:

<!-- readmore -->

#### **Cold emailing**

Find people in your niche and personally contact them. This is the most
straightforward way to begin, finding people who are likely to need your service
and making a personalized offer is free and very effective.

#### **Content Marketing** + **Social Media**.

Write a blog or make a YouTube channel, share free value, submit links to Hacker
News or subreddits, use your posts to advertise your service’s landing page.
This can be combined with smart PR/Influencer marketing(guest blog for people,
get people to share your content), and SEO(think about long-tail very niche
keywords that you can rank for).

#### **Engineering as marketing**

Create open source or free software that your potential clients will want to
use, use it to drive traffic to your page. Look at
[draw.io](https://www.draw.io/) or [chapp.is](https://chapp.is/) for a great
example.

#### **Facebook ads**

Facebook ads may not be the best long term strategy, but they are an excellent
way to quickly test your landing page and see how well it converts. Target
audience in your niche, make an appealing ad, and spend a few buck sending
traffic to your page, it’s very easy.

#### **Collaborate**

Find people who already have clients, and offer them to work on projects
together(for example you can contact app designers and offer them development
services).

#### **Referrals and word of mouth**

This is kind of a chicken and the egg problem at the beginning, but after you
have your first clients, they might bring more business or recommend more
clients. Consider giving people heavy discounts at the beginning, if you think
they will bring you more business in the future.

*****

Do you have questions about building and growing an online business? Send them
to [advice@startuplab.io](mailto:advice@startuplab.io), and I will answer the
best ones in my future posts!

